# Gradient distortion unwarping
## [NOT IMPLEMENTED 2018-10-24]
[*GradUnwarp [Freesurfer?] https://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki/GradUnwarp*]  
Can this be don on scanner for GE? for all sequences?
Jovicich, et al. 2006
>The goal of the distortion correction is to transform (interpolate) the original distorted image into a corrected one by displacing each voxel into an estimate of its correct 3-D location and by scaling each voxel’s intensity to account for voxel-size distortions. A laboratory-based coordinate system was used to calculate the displacements in Euclidean coordinates (x, y, z). This coordinate axis system had its origin at the iso-center of the scanner, with the z direction aligned with the main field B0, the x direction the left/ right and the y direction superior/inferior. The 3-D displacements along each of the three directions can be calculated from the nonlinear terms of the magnetic field generated by each of the gradient coils (Janke et al., 2004). These fields are usually provided by the vendor in the form of a truncated series of spherical harmonic coefficients and instructions for how these coefficients are normalized to calculate field magnitudes (5 terms were available for the GE CRM and BRM gradients and 11 for Siemens Sonata gradients). The intensity correction is the Jacobian determinant calculated from the non-linear magnetic field terms. The displacements and intensity correction tables were pre computed (using trilinear 3-D interpolation) in a 3-D cylindrical grid (300 mm in diameter, 300 mm long) that is large enough to contain any imaging volume acquired within the head RF coil."
## Output:
```
 ${researcher}/${project}/derivatives/anat/prep/${subject}/${session}/
  ∟sub-${subject}_ses-${session}_*_${mod}_prep-gradunwarp.nii.gz
```
## Citations:
>Janke A, Zhao H, Cowin GJ, Galloway GJ, & Doddrell DM. (2004). Use of spherical harmonic deconvolution methods to compensate for nonlinear gradient effects on MRI images. Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, 52(1), 115–122. DOI:10.1002/mrm.20122 PMID:15236374

>Jovicich J, Czanner S, Greve D, Haley E, van der Kouwe A, Gollub R, Kennedy D, Schmitt F, Brown G, Fischl B, Dale A. (2006). Reliability in multi-site structural MRI studies: effects of gradient non-linearity correction on phantom and human data. Neuroimage, 30(2), 463-443. DOI:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2005.09.046 PMID:16300968

>Glasser MF, Sotiropoulos SN, Willson JA, Coalson TS, Fischl B, Andersson JL, Xu J, Jbabdi S, Webster M, Polimeni JR, Van Essen DC, Jenkinson M, & WU-Minn HCP Consortium. (2013). The minimal processing pipelines for the Human Connectome Project. Neuroimage, 80, 105-124. DOI:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.04.127 PMCID:PMC3720813
